ECOPROJECT-3- Documentation changes for Poison Pill 4.9 (#40380)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/eco-poison-pill-about-watchdog.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/eco-poison-pill-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-watchdog-devices_{context}"]
= About watchdog devices

Watchdog devices are of two kinds:
* Hardware watchdog 

> * Software watchdog (or softdog)

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58551443/153139865-3a977575-b681-4827-951d-2b0059956c03.png)
I can see that when switching to a doc view the bullets are not beneath each other

> * Software watchdog (or softdog)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three categories of Watchdog devices:
- Independently powered hardware devices 
- Hardware devices that share power with the hosts they control
- Virtual devices implemented in software

```

> Hardware watchdog and softdog devices have electronic or software timers, respectively. These watchdog devices are used to provide fencing. When the cluster is in a healthy state, it regularly restarts the watchdog timer at set intervals. This timer might elapse due to fault conditions such as CPU starvation or unhealthy nodes. The watchdog or softdog device now assumes that a fault has occurred and the device triggers a forced reset of the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hardware watchdog and softdog devices have electronic or software timers, respectively. These watchdog devices are used to ensure the machine enters a safe state when an error condition is detected. The cluster is required to repeatedly reset the watchdog timer in order to prove that it is in a healthy state. This timer might elapse due to fault conditions such as deadlocks, CPU starvation, and loss of network or disk access. If the timer expires, the watchdog or softdog device assumes that a fault has occurred and the device triggers a forced reset of the node.
```

Hardware watchdog devices are more reliable than softdog devices.

[id="understanding-pp-watchdog_{context}"]
== Understanding Poison Pill Operator behavior with watchdog devices

> The Poison Pill Operator uses these watchdog devices to determine the remediation strategy. Since hardware watchdog devices are more reliable than softdog devices, the Operator prefers using the former first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Poison Pill Operator determines the remediation strategy based on the watchdog devices present. Since hardware watchdog devices are more reliable than softdog devices, the Operator will prefer the former.
```

> If a hardware watchdog device is configured, the Operator uses it for remediation. If it is not configured, the Operator enables and uses a softdog device for remediation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a hardware watchdog device is configured and available, the Operator uses it for remediation. If it is not configured, the Operator enables and uses a softdog device for remediation. 
```

> If neither watchdog devices are configured, the Operator remediates nodes by using software reboot. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If neither watchdog devices are supported, either by the system or the configuration, the Operator remediates nodes by using software reboot. 
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/eco-poison-pill-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-watchdog-devices_{context}"]
= About watchdog devices

> Watchdog devices are of the following categories:

Reviewer 3: Nitty suggestion: Simplify the sentence.

```suggestion
Watchdog devices can be any of the following:
```

* Independently powered hardware devices 
* Hardware devices that share power with the hosts they control

> * Virtual devices implemented in software (or `softdog`)

Reviewer 4: We try to avoid the use of parenthesis, so perhaps you can use a comma before the "or" statement instead

> * Virtual devices implemented in software (or softdog)

Reviewer 3: If softdog is a linux kernel component, then I think you should wrap it in backticks. https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference

Also, if you are explicitly referring to devices implemented in `softdog`, no need to say "software (or softdog)".

```suggestion
* Virtual devices implemented in `softdog`
```

Hardware watchdog and `softdog` devices have electronic or software timers, respectively. These watchdog devices are used to ensure that the machine enters a safe state when an error condition is detected. The cluster is required to repeatedly reset the watchdog timer to prove that it is in a healthy state. This timer might elapse due to fault conditions, such as deadlocks, CPU starvation, and loss of network or disk access. If the timer expires, the watchdog device assumes that a fault has occurred and the device triggers a forced reset of the node.

Hardware watchdog devices are more reliable than `softdog` devices.

[id="understanding-pp-watchdog_{context}"]
== Understanding Poison Pill Operator behavior with watchdog devices

> The Poison Pill Operator determines the remediation strategy based on the watchdog devices that are present.

Reviewer 5: should we define remediation?

Reviewer 5: A link would help folks like me who don't realise remediation is a big word for reboot, and that 'poison pill' is some sort of attempt at humour

Author: This module is a part of the Poison Pill Operator assembly, which sets the context.

> The Poison Pill Operator determines the remediation strategy based on the watchdog devices that are present. Since hardware watchdog devices are more reliable than softdog devices, the Operator prefers the former.

Reviewer 3: anthropomorphization of Operator - "prefers". And I think this sentence is not required also. 
```suggestion
The Poison Pill Operator determines the remediation strategy based on the watchdog devices that are present.
```

> If a hardware watchdog device is configured and available, the Operator uses it for remediation. If hardware watchdog device is not configured, the Operator enables and uses a `softdog` device for remediation. 

Author: @ahardin-rh It's not a specific device and it could be any hardware watchdog. Would we still s/a hardware/the hardware?

> If a hardware watchdog device is configured and available, the Operator uses it for remediation. If it is not configured, the Operator enables and uses a softdog device for remediation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a hardware watchdog device is configured and available, the Operator uses it for remediation. If a hardware watchdog device is not configured, the Operator enables and uses a `softdog` device for remediation. 
```

> If neither watchdog devices are supported, either by the system or by the configuration, the Operator remediates nodes by using software reboot. 

Reviewer 4: s/by using software reboot/rebooting the software

Author: @ahardin-rh - Based on https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/40380#discussion_r805820105, can we retain the "software reboot" term?

Reviewer 4: @abhatt-rh Based on that comment, then perhaps we can update it to be "soft reboot" instead of "software reboot"? If that's not technically correct, then we can keep the sentence as is. Thanks!

Author: Thank you @ahardin-rh 
I used software reboot in the context of the spec that we are documenting in the Poison Pill config YAML, which is `isSoftwareRebootEnabled`. So I'll go with it.

> If neither watchdog devices are supported, either by the system or by the configuration, the Operator remediates nodes by using software reboot. 

Reviewer 3: What is "software reboot"? Is this a specfic feature?

```suggestion
If neither watchdog devices are supported, either by the system or by the configuration, the Operator reboots the node. 
```

Author: After discussing it with the team, we'll retain software reboot. It's not a new feature, but standard terminology. As I understand it, node reboot is a result of this software reboot. Some reference for [hardware and software rebooting](https://kb.leaseweb.com/products/dedicated-server/performing-hard-and-soft-reboots#Performinghardandsoftreboots-Typesofreboot)
